Hello everyone.
In this lesson we will begin styling our header navigation menu for small screens.
Let's dive right in and get started in our previous lesson.
We wrote javascript so that when we tap on this top right icon the navigation is revealed.
Our goal for this lesson is to use CSX and adjust the design so that the layout for this content doesn't
look broken and really quickly.
Just so you and I are on the same page.
Here's a preview of what I want it to look like.
Let's go ahead and get to work.
The first thing we should do is to push the navigation content down further from the top of the page
so that it's no longer being overlapped by our logo.
To do that let's jump over to our text editor and let's open up our site header CSX file which lives
in app assets styles modules.
And here it is site header.
Let's scroll down to the very bottom of the file.
Here is the menu content rule that we are looking for.
Let's adjust the baseline style to give it padding top of 100 pixels.
Let's save this and see how it looks in the browser.
All right.
So for small screens that push this content down so it's no longer hidden behind the logo but that 100
pixels of top padding was also applied on larger screens which we don't want.
So over in our CSX within this menu content rule we already have a mix in targeting medium screens and
larger.
So within there let's say padding top zero so desktop is looking good again.
And now we can move on to our next step for mobile.
Currently the get in touch button and the navigation links are floated to the right.
This is easier to see on the large desktop version but for mobile I think we should remove those floats
so that the content is just positioned naturally.
Let's begin with the get in touch button.
So back in our text editor if we scroll to the top of this file we see a rule for the button container
element.
Let's just wrap this float right property within a media query.
So let's say app Mixon in at medium and then let's just cut and paste float right into that mix in let's
go ahead and save this.
All right now before we remove the float from the navigation links let's first set this entire menu
content div to be text aligned center.
So within our CSX if we scroll back down within the menu content rule let's simply say text align center.
I think that looks better.
Now let's go and remove the float from these navigation links the styles for those navigation links
live within a different CSX module file which is named primary nav.
Now currently this entire primary nav element is being floated to the right with this modifier class.
Now if we want to remove this float for small screens we can simply wrap this declaration with an immediate
query so we can say at Mixon at medium.
And then just cut and paste float right to live within the media query.
Now before we save this why don't we also adjust these primary nav lengths so that they all fit on a
single line.
And so that they are horizontally centered in order to horizontally center these links we need to tell
each allied list item to no longer be floated to the left.
So back in our text editor within this rule that selects the fly elements let's create a media query.
So at Mixon at medium and only within this media query do we want to float the list items to the left.
So float left and then we want to delete float left from the baseline styles and let's set the list
items by default to be inline block.
So display inline block.
This will allow them to be horizontally centered but then within our media query we can reset that by
saying display block.
Let's go ahead and save this so we can see that these links are attempting to be center aligned.
Now we just need to free up a bit of space so that the third link testimonials can fit on the same line.
So back in RC SS there's padding right.
Twenty pixels is what's creating the horizontal gap between each of our three links.
However if we stop and think about it for a second the final link doesn't need to create a gap to its
right because it's the final item.
There isn't going to be another link sitting to its right.
So what we can do to save space for small screens is say the list item that is the last child.
So the final list item in the list it should have padding right of zero.
Now while this is what we want for small screens we do want to leave that padding right intact.
Even for this final list item for larger screens so we can say at Mixon at medium go ahead and reapply
the 20 pixels of right padding.
Now if we save this and check out the browser we see that that still didn't free up enough horizontal
space to have the third link testimonials fit on the same line.
So what we can do within our main list item rule is lower this 20 pixels padding right to something
like 7 and this will be applied for small screens and then within this media query we can say that larger
screens can continue to use our original 20 pixels.
So let's save this and now we see that all three links fit on the same line.
Now before we continue to fine tune the spacing and styling of these links I think we should first work
on making this navigation content easier to read meaning let's add a semi transparent background color
to this entire header area.
When the mobile menu is expanded to do this we can modify our javascript from our previous lesson to
also add a modifier class to the entire site header and then we can target that modified class with
our C Ss to add the background color.
So let's go ahead and open up the mobile menu JavaScript file so over in our text editor.
It lives in app assets Scripps modules.
Here it is.
Mobile menu.
So first within our constructor let's add a new property that selects the entire site header element
from the dom.
So let's name this property site header and that should equal.
Document doc query selector.
And it has a class of site header.
All right.
Now we can use this property down within the toggle the menu method.
Let's create a new line and say this dot site header dot class list dot toggle and let's use a CSX class
name of site header Dash.
Dash is expanded.
Let's go ahead and save this file and then jump back into our site header CSX file and let's scroll
back to the top now towards the top of this main site header rule.
Let's create a new modifier we can use the ampersand symbol so we don't have to type out site header
again and then we can just type Dash Dash is expanded.
All right.
And when the site header has this modified class applied to it we want to give it a semi transparent
background color.
So let's say background color are GPA.
Let's use our main blue variable.
And in terms of transparency let's say that this background color should be fifty five percent visible.
Let's go ahead and save this and check things out in the browser.
If we click this top right icon this looks nice but I think it would be even better if the menu faded
into view gradually.
So back in our CSX within the baseline rule for the site header element let's add the transition property
and we can say that when this elements background color changes we want it to gradually transition to
the new value over the course of a certain period of time.
So I want the transition or fade to be fairly quick.
So let's say point three seconds.
So this is about a third of a second or 300 milliseconds.
And by default this transition will be linear.
But I think transition style of ease out looks especially nice.
So let's go ahead and save this and then take it for a spin in the browser.
So now when we click this top right icon the blue background of the menu gradually fades into view.
Let's also set up the actual menu content itself to also gradually fade in.
So back in RC SS within our site header file.
Let's scroll down and within our menu content rule we are currently using display none to initially
hide the content but let's actually delete this and replace it with opacity 0.
So this way the content will still be hidden initially but once our is visible modifier class is added
Let's delete this display block and we can gradually fade to an opacity of 1 which is fully visible
and then back within our baseline rule for this element we do want to specify that we want the transition
for the opacity property to gradually change over the course of about a third of a second and let's
use the easy out transition style again.
And before we save this and check things out in the browser I want to point out that because we are
no longer using display none to hide this content and we are instead using opacity This means that even
though the content will be invisible initially it will still exist in the browser and it could be clicked
on and we don't want the user to be able to accidentally click on invisible content.
So what we can do is use z index and provide a negative value to ensure that this menu content when
it's hidden sits beneath all the other content on the page so that it can't be accidentally clicked
on.
And if we're going to use the index we also need to say that this element is positioned relative.
Otherwise the browser won't acknowledge our z index value.
All right.
And then down within our is visible class when the content is ready to be visible we simply give it
a z index of 1.
And remember we only wanted the content to be hidden initially for small screens.
So within this media query for medium screens and larger instead of making the content visible with
display block.
Let's update this to use opacity 1 and let's also tell medium screens and larger that they can use as
the index value of one from the get go.
All right now before we save this.
Now that we are changing multiple properties on this element both its opacity and its Zi index in this
transition line.
Let's change this from opacity to say that we simply want to transition all properties or everything.
All right let's go ahead and save this and check out the browser.
And when we click the top right icon not only does the blue background fade in gradually but now our
actual content fades in as well.
Let's take things a step further and add a neat zoom out effect.
So check this out within the baseline rule for this menu content element.
Let's give it a new property of Transform and let's initially make the content look a bit bigger than
we want it to end up so we can say scale.
Now one is the elements natural size.
So if we say one point to the content will be 20 percent larger than it naturally would.
All right.
And then down within our is visible modifier class we can simply say transform scale and place it back
to its natural size.
And we only want this neat zoom out effect to happen for small screens.
So within this media query we can say that larger screens should always use this scale of simply one.
So let's go ahead and save this and check it out in the browser.
When we click the top right icon we see a nice little zoom out fade effect.
There's only one problem when I try to tap on this icon again to close the menu.
It's not working.
This is because we adjusted the z index value of the menu content div.
This means that once the menu content is visible it's overlapping this icon.
So we can't click on the icon.
We can fix this by giving that top right icon a larger z index value.
So within our CSX let's scroll up a bit.
And within this menu icon rule.
Let's give it a z index of 10.
Let's save this.
And now when we click on this icon our menu closes again and we saw that when it closes we even get
a nice little zoom in fade effect now before we bring this lesson to a close let's adjust the styling
for these three links so that they each have a subtle background and a bit of padding just to make them
feel that much more tangible or clickable.
So back in our CSX let's jump over to our primary nav CSX file it down at the very bottom.
Let's work on this link rule.
Let's begin by creating a media query so we can send different styles to small screens and larger screens.
So let's say at mix in at medium.
All right.
So for medium screens let's go ahead and continue to use these padding settings so let's just copy and
paste that.
But within the baseline rule that will be applied for small screens.
Let's change this to use five pixels of vertical padding and eight pixels of horizontal padding.
Let's also use a slightly smaller font size for small screens.
So let's say font size.
Point eight Ram.
And then within our media query we can say that larger screens should use a standard font size of one
Ram within our baseline styles.
Let's also add a really subtle transparent background background color.
Let's say RGA.
Let's use our main blue color and let's have it just be 30 percent visible.
And then within our media query let's tell larger screens that they shouldn't apply a background color
at all to the links so they can just use a background color of transparent.
All right let's go ahead and save this and check it out in the browser.
This looks OK.
But I think we could afford to make the backgrounds for each of the three links a bit darker so within
our RGA value let's bump this up to maybe point five.
I think that looks better.
Now we just need to add a bit of vertical spacing between the get in touch button and these three links.
So let's jump back to our CSX and at the very top of this primary nav file.
Let's say padding top 10 pixels but we don't want to create this vertical gap for larger screens.
So let's create a media query.
So at Mixon at medium and then we just want to offset this value.
So padding top 0.
Let's save this and check it out.
That looks a lot better.
But now I'm noticing that maybe this vertical gap between the logo and this button is a bit too much.
So let's reduce this maybe by 10 pixels.
So to do that back in our text editor let's jump over to our site header CSX file and if we scroll down
to the very bottom within our menu content rule we can adjust this padding top value so let's reduce
this from 100 pixels to maybe 90 pixels.
Let's save this and I think that looks a lot better.
And that's actually going to bring this lesson to a close in our next lesson.
We will be focusing on this top right menu icon.
We will be giving it a beauty makeover.
We will customize it so that instead of a square it looks like a hamburger menu icon.
We will also learn how to smoothly transform it into an X icon once it's been tapped.
Just so we're on the same page right now.
I will overlay some footage of the finished product that I have in mind setting those styles up should
be a ton of fun.
Let's keep things rolling and I will see you in the next lesson.